# DSCI 532 - Visualization II
## Group 204 Reflection 

Version 2 of the "V is for Vino" app is an effective interactive dashboard, allowing any wine enthusiast to explore the best wines the United States has to offer. The initial goal of the app was to answer the following questions: which specific regions in the United States produce the best wines? Which regions provide the best value? What grape varieties consistently get high ratings? Using this app we were able to explore all of these questions and more. The app does differ from the original sketch, and from version 1 created in Python, due to absence of bootstrap components (i.e. tabs, columns, rows) in R, time limitations, difficulties working with `dplyr` in custom functions, and lack of documentation. Unfortunately, version 2 designed in R has fewer interactive features than version 1. We had to get rid of features such as the slider bar for choosing the number of observations for the bar chart, tabs to separate geographic and wine feature analysis, and the tool tip for the bar chart. Despite these differences,the main functionalities of the app remain the same.

We have a number of future features that we would like to implement:
- We hope to add a clickable element which would display dynamic charts to view the data for each state. 
- It would be useful to have a table in which the user could filter and retrieve wines that meet a specific criteria. 
- Another feature that would provide valuable information would be to include dynamic histograms for the points and price of the wines, showing a distribution based on region, variety, and winery. 
- We would like to distinguish between red and white wine (this was not possible for this version of the app due to time constraints). 
- We would like to expand the dataset to include wine ratings from all over the world (in the current dataset, there are few observations and a fair amount of missing data outside of the US, which led us to subset our dataset to only US values).

Overall, we are happy with how version 2 of our app turned out. The layout is not the same as version 1, but we kept our initial colour scheme and have now adopted a sequential layout. We also made some efficiency improvements regarding the speed and load times of the heatmap plot elements by doing some additional data wrangling. We are happy that we were able to recreate the plots originally designed in Python, especially considering that `ggplotly` does not have a dedicated heatmap plot type like in `altair`, and is instead a combination of different plot elements. Most importantly, we managed to implement the vital parts of our project regarding the usefulness of the app in R, as our app answers our initial research questions and provides valuable information to the user.  